>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the question is how
many container components can we have?
If we can have as many as we wish,
should we organize the ones into modules?
And how two components on
a different module can interact?
So that's actually three questions,
it appears like.
So the answer is, you want as few
container components as possible.
And you want as many presentational
components as possible.
So the reason for that is a container
component contains state.
And what you want to do is you
want to reduce complexity in
your application by reducing state.
So the idea is that you want as few
container components as possible,
and as many presentational
components as you can get.
My rule of thumb is I generally have
a container component for a feature.
So for instance we have items that
gets its container component.
We have widgets,
that gets a container component.
The reason being is you need to
basically get the state from somewhere.
So you basically have to have
something that gets enough state
to satisfy the visual
requirements of that feature.
As well as, you need the ability to
actually convey events back up to
a service to handle business logic.
And so, for me,
I generally try to have a Smart component,
or a Container component,
for every feature.
Now I have seen for various reasons,
that you'll have a Smart component that
may have additional Smart components.
So, you can have as many as you want, but
really make sure that
the architecture necessitates that.
The fundamental reason,
is that a Container component means
that you are consuming state.
To then feed into your
presentational components.
You want to reduce that
as much as possible.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: With that said,
the next question is,
should you break it out,
your container components into modules?
I personally do not do that.
Where I would break it into a module
is if it needed to be abstracted
out into a lazy route.
Or it need to be a lazy loaded component
or I needed to move it somewhere else.
From there the next or third question
is how do two components and
two different modules communicate?
Well they essentially share
a same top level component that
they are now aware of each other.
And they communicate as if they were in
the same module, if that makes sense.
So if you have two components
in two separate modules.
You need to actually import one or
the other or
you can import them into
the top level module.
And then, that serves as
the mechanism to communicate from
there.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Next
question.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
are we ready to see the solution?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what we need to
do is extract the widgets
collection to a widgets service.
And then essentially make it so
that we can consume it.
Or expose it, then consume it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we'll hop into here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And I'm just going to
get rid of this user's,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Stuff
here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Since I don't actually
need that.
Let's go ahead and delete this.
So I'm just cleaning up this component,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, so
let's go ahead and
create our widgets service.
So we'll go in our shared folder,
we'll go widgets.service.ts
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And while we're here,
let's go ahead and do widget.model.ts.
I'm pretty sure that the widget
interface is identical to
the item.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then within our widget service, let's
go ahead and start to build this out.
So export class widgets service,
and then from here, Injectable().
Now remember this is a method, so
we have to put the parentheses in there.
And then from here, let's go into our
component and let's chop this out and
get it out of here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now what we'll do as well.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go ahead and
type this so
this is now an array of widget objects.
Reason being is that it
lines up with our interface.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so from here,
let's go ahead and expose this.
Let's do it through the barrel roll.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So just,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Exporting the service
and the interface or the model.
And then, let's go here.
And now, we can attach
this to our module.
Any questions what I've done so far?
I've just created a class, injectable,
then I've added to the barrel roll.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
from here I've just imported
it to the app module, and
added it to providers.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
let's go here, yes?
>> Speaker 2: That right
there, I was just curious
how you would set that typed
collection, okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you can do this another way as well.
For some reason I just prefer this way.
I think you can go array.
>> Speaker 2: Widget,
widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, widget.
So you can do this as well.
So there are a couple
of ways to type this,
I just, I keep wanting to do, there we go.
To me, this just reads better,
a little more concise.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now let's
consume this.
So if we go to our widget's component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Go
to private widgetsService.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's
what I'm looking for, right there.
And one thing we are missing,
actually let's do this.
We'll set this to widget.
And we'll set widgets to an array of
widget objects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then from here, so
we've injected this into our constructor.
Then we can go this.widgets =
this.widgetsService.widgets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And just to make sure,
and we are indeed consuming this.
Let's go back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Boom.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So does anybody
have any questions about
what I've done here?
Does this makes sense?
>> Speaker 3: I'm gonna have to do it
a handful of times.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question.
If I imported my widget service
already in the module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: And it's injectable.
Why do I have to import
it [INAUDIBLE] component?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So-
>> Speaker 2: It seems redundant to-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It does.
>> Speaker 2: Import it everywhere.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So I think actually.
Let me just delete this real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did this not get
picked up?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
it's under the impression,
that we should put it in the module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Was there,
but,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That may not be
the case.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's refresh this,
oops.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Think about it.
Okay, there it is.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's interesting,
I think obviously components are fine.
But, hold on.
So this is again what
we have with language
level modules and framework level modules.
Is that prior to this,
what you had to do prior to module.
Is actually, at the Angular level,
you had to inject it in.
And so
there are kind of some moving pieces here.
It's how dependency objection works,
is you're defining the dependencies,
you're supplying the dependencies.
And then you also can define how
the dependencies are satisfied.
And so this is whole going
into dependency injection and
I recommend reading
Pascal's blog post on that.
And notice that we're
not having to define our
widget service like this
from an Angular standpoint.
So that it can handle
dependency injection.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Because Angular knows
how to supply that
dependency to inject it in.
But from an ES6 module standpoint we
have to have it at the constructor
to satisfy essentially
the type script dependency.
So that it knows,
this is being injected in here so
this module has to be made available.
So ng module think of it as really for
the dependency injection at
kind of the framework level.
But you still need to do modules
at the language level and
that's why that's happening.
So that is admittedly confusing cuz
you kinda have two things happening at
the same time.
You have your ES6 modules then you have
your NG module which is defined for
mainly dependency injection purposes.